# React developer technical task

This repository contains a demo app showcasing a small custom library of three reusable components (DataGrid, Timeline, and Form).

## Instructions

Clone this repository, open a terminal in the main directory, and type

```
npm install
```

To run the project as dev,

```
run dev
```

## Design choices

I used the libraries listed below. I chose them since they are generally trusted by the community, lightweight, and have good tree-shaking.

- For styling, **shadcn** and **tailwindcss**.
- For the DataGrid component, **tanstack-table** and **shadcn** components.
- For controlled form validation, **react-hook-form**.
- For date handling and formatting, **date-fns**.
- For icons, **lucide-react**.
- The theme was generated by **shadcn**.

The app is designed to be used as part of a simple security system. Events were automatically generated around this theme.

I implemented the requirements and the additional features listed below.

- I decided to add extra fields to the events (colored _status_ label, _description_) for a more realistic feel.

- In the **DataGrid** component, I added a component description, and an _actions_ column to _view/edit/delete_ events. Due to time constraints, the _delete_ option does not have a confirmation modal.

- In the **Timeline** component, I added a component description, and the option to group events by _hour_ in case there are too many events in a single day.

> A note about two directories: `components/ui` and `lib` were automatically generated by shadcn.

## Commits

Since this is a self-contained project, I wrote most of the code _before_ uploading it to this repository in logically organized commits.

## AI usage

I used Claude Opus exclusively for:

- Light debugging.
- Generating dummy data.
- Doing some documentation search.
- Discussing ideas.

That's it. The design, code, and overall structure were fully made/written by me.
